Add NatSpec to Style-Guide (#2271)
ethereum/solidity: docs/style-guide.rst

=======================

TODO

***********

> NatSpec

Reviewer: I'd suggest to move this to its own file.

***********

Solidity contracts can have a special form of comments that form the basis of the Ethereum Natural Specification Format. For a usage example please check [here](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Natspec-Example/).

Documentation Example
=====================

Documentation is inserted above the function following the doxygen notation of either one or multiple lines starting with `///` or a multiline comment starting with `/**` and ending with `*/`.

As an example consider the documentation of the following function::

>     /// @notice Send `(valueInmGAV / 1000).fixed(0,3)` GAV from the account of 

Reviewer: Can this be changed into a generic token example?

Reviewer 2: NatSpec was changed years ago to support javascript snippets and not some weird other formatting language.

    /// @dev This should be the documentation of the function for the developer docs
    /// @param to The address of the recipient of the GavCoin
    /// @param valueInmGAV The GavCoin value to send
    function send(address to, uint256 valueInmGAV) {
        if (balances[msg.sender] >= valueInmGAV) {
          balances[to] += valueInmGAV;
          balances[msg.sender] -= valueInmGAV;
        }

There are a few things to note about the above example.
- Natspec format uses doxygen tags with some special meaning. These are::

    + @title: This is a title that should describe the contract and go above the contract definition
    + @author: The name of the author of the contract. Should also go above the contract definition.
    + @notice: Represents user documentation. This is the text that will appear to the user to notify him
      of what the function he is about to execute is doing
    + @dev: Represents developer documentation. This is documentation that would only be visible to the
      developer.
    + @param: Documents a parameter just like in doxygen. Has to be followed by the parameter name.
    + @return: Documents the return type of a contract's function.

> - If any of the above are missing they are simply considered as blank and it's not illegal to omit any of them

Reviewer 3: Maybe a period is missing.

> - `(valueInmGAV / 1000).fixed(0,3)` A dynamic expression. This should be a valid Javascript/Paperscript expression, which when evaluated in an EVM Javascript environment initialised with various system values (such as parameters).

Reviewer: What is paperscript?

Documentation Output
====================

When parsed, documentation such as the one from the above example will produce 2 different json files. One is meant to be consumed by the user as a notice when a function is executed and the other to be used by the developer.

Let us see a more full contract example::

    /// @title This is the contract title.
    /// @author Homer Simpson
    contract GavCoin
    {
      /// @notice Send `(valueInmGAV / 1000).fixed(0,3)` GAV from the account of 
      /// `message.caller.address()`, to an account accessible only by `to.address()
      /// @dev This should be the documentation of the function for the developer docs
      /// @param to The address of the recipient of the GavCoin
      /// @param valueInmGav The GavCoin value to send
      function send(address to, uint256 valueInmGAV) {
        if (balances[msg.sender] >= valueInmGAV) {
          balances[to] += valueInmGAV;
          balances[msg.sender] -= valueInmGAV;
        }
      }

>       /// @notice `(balanceInmGAV / 1000).fixed(0,3)` GAV is the total funds available to `who.address()`.

Reviewer 3: Shall the `notice` field contain a period or not?

      /// @param who The address of the person whose balance we check
      /// @return The balance of the user provided as argument
      function balance(address who) constant returns (uint256 balanceInmGAV) {
        balanceInmGAV = balances[who];
      }

      mapping (address => uint256) balances;
    }

User Documentation
==================

The above documentation will produce the following user documentation json file as output::

    {
      "source": "...",
      "language": "Solidity",

>       "languageVersion": 1,

Reviewer: I think these are not part of the userdoc/devdoc.

=======================

TODO

.. _natspec:

*******
NatSpec
*******

Solidity contracts can have a form of comments that are the basis of the
Ethereum Natural Language Specification Format.

> Add the comments above the function or contract following `doxygen <http://www.doxygen.nl>`_ notation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Add comments above functions or contracts following `doxygen <http://www.doxygen.nl>`_ notation
```

of one or multiple lines starting with `///` or a
multiline comment starting with `/**` and ending with `*/`.

For example, the contract from `a simple smart contract <simple-smart-contract>`_ with the comments

> added looks like the below::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
added looks like the one below::
```
To me `the below` sounded a bit weird, not sure though

    pragma solidity >=0.4.0 <0.6.0;

    /// @author The Solidity Team
    /// @title A simple storage example
    contract SimpleStorage {
        uint storedData;

        /// Store `x`
        /// @param x the new value to store

>         /// @dev stores the number in the state variable `storedData`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        /// @dev stores the number in the state variable `storedData`
```

        function set(uint x) public {
            storedData = x;
        }

        /// Return the stored value.
        //// @dev retrieves the value of the state variable `storedData`

>         //// @return the stored value

Reviewer 4: Why do these have 4 `/`?

        function get() public view returns (uint) {
            return storedData;
        }
    }

Natspec uses doxygen style tags with some special meaning.
If no tag is used, then the comment applies to ``@notice``.
The ``@notice`` tag is the main NatSpec tag and its audience is
users of the contract who have never seen the source code, so it should make
as little assumptions about the inner details as possible.
All tags are optional.

+-------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| Tag         | Description                               | Context                       |
+=============+===========================================+===============================+
| ``@title``  | A title that describes the contract       | contract, interface           |
+-------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> | ``@author`` | The name of the author of the contract    | contract, interface, function |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| ``@author`` | The name of the author   | contract, interface, function |
```
Also applies to functions

+-------------+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------+

> | ``@notice`` | Explanation of what a function does       | contract, interface, function |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| ``@notice`` | Explanation of a functionality       | contract, interface, function |
```
